---
layout: post
title:  "Progress"
date:   2020-11-27
---

I ran a marathon almost exactly a year ago. Rather than spending Thanksgiving feasting on turkey and pie, I was stuffing my face with every carb in sight. It felt like the end of a long journey and like I had truly accomplished something. No, I had not technically finished yet, but the training and journey always felt far more difficult than the actual race.

A year from now, I'm not sure how I'll view this NaNoWriMo goal. Running further or faster than I could a month ago was an easy way to measure progress. But writing is a more subjective beast, offering no concrete evidence of growth. 

My previous experience in writing exacerbates this further. It's not as if I am attempting to start from 0, but rather from whatever point nearly 20 years of writing in school and work have dumped me off at. By the law of diminishing returns I would expect progress to be much slower than it was in a new field like distance running. In the course of writing 30 pieces I expect I'll have written about 7.5k words at the end of this month- a sizeable chunk, but probably less than I wrote most terms in college. Thus a sharp improvement in skill feels unrealistic.

I certainly could have ranted on in each piece and doubled my word count this month, but am skeptical it would be fruitful developing my pen. Rather I think the unique thing here is writing every single day. Previously such stretches had been measured in terms of days as I scrambled to start and finish papers that were supposed to take whole terms. But now I will have maintained a pace for weeks. I'm honestly not sure whether this has benefited me, but at least it's a different approach.