---
layout: post
title:  "Reading & Tracking"
date:   2020-11-2 17:24:00 -0700
---
I read a lot. Generally science fiction and fantasy, but with some real literature in the form of economics or sociology books thrown in there too. An unfortunate side effect of this is that I sometimes forget what I've read in the past, and start rereading a book. I tend to get a few chapters in before I start to realize that the plotline sounds awfully familiar, and then that feeling just grows until I have to admit that I goofed again. 

After doing this for the umpteenth time, I started making an effort to track every book that I read earlier in 2020. After all, a databases memory is much less fallible than my own. I've been logging my activity on Goodreads, which asks when you finished a book and then uses it to generate some cool graphs.

My competitive nature immediately seized on those graphs, If I read 15 books last month then I desperately want to read 16 books this month. And ditto for page counts. But no harm there, right? Readings good for you. 

Not quite. I used to be pretty quick to discard a book if I'm genuinely not enjoying it. But now I find myself loathe to lose out on those sweet precious pages that I've read that won't be tracked. So I've been reading more things that I don't enjoy. And I've been reading lighter books that don't require much reflection because those are easier to get through. 

Basically I'm screwing myself. I got sucked into the gamification of a system and pursued the goals that it wanted for me, not the goals I had for myself. 
