---
layout: post
title:  "Alarms"
date:   2020-11-16
---
A chirping alarm has heralded the onset of the day for much of my life. My arms reach out of their own will, stabbing at the silence button with the precision and speed of a master fencer dipping inside his enemies guard. It typically requires so little thought that my mind can almost fit the odd noise into my dreams and continue on unperturbed. At least until the second or even third alarm struck. 

It's not even that I regularly stay up especially late— many of my friends know me as the first friend to leave a party to go back to bed. Even way back in the days before I had an alarm clock and would go to bed at 9 my parents would serve as timekeepers, gently shaking me awake each morning. My body just soaks up sleep like a perpetually dry sponge. 

All of which means it is especially odd that I haven't needed an alarm for months. I've found myself naturally waking up around 7:30 every day, my sleep lightening with the skies. On the occasions that I manage to pass by this silent milestone, 8:30am has proven to be an intractable barrier no matter how quiet my environs or deep my sleep. 

I do miss those luxurious weekend morning snoozes where you seem to burrow deeper and deeper into the covers with every passing hour, sure in the knowledge that nothing and nobody is waiting for you. But natural wakeups have certainly enlivened me for the first couple hours of work, at least comparatively. And getting out for an early run or activity on the weekend always makes me feel productive and alive. 

It seems easy to link this change to quarantine and a change in my daily schedule. But maybe that's too easy a mark. It could also be from natural aging, or from spending less time on screens after work, or any other of a thousand factors. I'll be very interested to see how long it persists though, and whether I'll miss it when (or if?!) its gone. 