---
layout: post
title:  "Commutes"
date:   2020-11-11
---
I found myself missing my commute the other day. I've always found some inherent benefit in having a separation between work and life. It helps me shift mindsets and destress. 

Granted, I may only miss it because it was relatively benign. An hourlong car ride would be another beast entirely. But my 30 minute walk or 15 minute bike was a peaceful ritual. I could follow the hill down in the morning and work off any frustrations climbing it back in the afternoon.

I think I've always enjoyed that physical gulf. The quarter mile between the bus stop and my house was my sanctuary in school. I could never be productive in my dorm or house in college, but walking a couple blocks to the student center or math building was always a reliable way to tilt my head into the right state of mind. 

Recently the 20 feet between my bed and laptop has had to suffice as a commute. Some days it has, others it has failed miserably. The afternoon tends to be a smoother transition, as I typically go for a run to offer the same phyiscal relief. 

The morning can be tricky though. It seems to be an easier transition if I don't linger over breakfast or in the shower and instead start straight in on things. Probably because it means that I only have to switch from sleeping to working mode, rather than adding in a relaxing step. 

I'm not sure how sustainable that will be long term. But hopefully I can start walking in to work again before it becomes a real issue.